so welcome to the Berkeley entrepreneurs
forum this is something we do every
month and we have everything from vc's
angels and lawyers to tell you about how
to raise capital for your company to
entrepreneurs we do a wide range of
different subjects from web and mobile
to energy clean technology and it's
great every month you can visit us at
entrepreneurship at berkeley.edu and
sign up for our mailing list which I
encourage you if you have in before you
can also check us out on Twitter we are
UCB entrepreneur and if you want to
tweet about tonight the hashtag is bef
for Berkeley entrepreneurs forum I
couldn't be more excited to introduce
tonight's program fennekin West has been
a longtime supporter of the forum Sam
Angus always puts together a fantastic
fantastic event and it's no surprise if
you look at his bio he's a lawyer with
fennec and west and he's helped jungly
with her 300 million dollar acquisition
by amazon the acquisition of jammed at
mobile and he's been doing it for a long
time I noticed you've got air B&B on
their very hot company right now is one
of his clients he also does mentoring
hours at the leicester center i might
add that so they're all kinds of reasons
to seek out Sam if you have an active
startup and the whole firm of fenwick
and Wes and without further ado I will
bring up Sam to introduce the program
tonight
Thank You Andre and Kirsten this I'm
blown away by the response here this is
absolutely amazing it's a great topic
and one that I think is extremely timely
we're going to review sort of the
venture capital the state of affairs for
venture capital and angel investing
we've got a great panel which I think
represents a range of investors and will
provide some hopefully interesting
provocative and insightful comments but
before that I want to introduce the the
one and only Steve Bengston of
PricewaterhouseCoopers to give his money
tree presentation which is always very
interesting and provides a nice backdrop
to what the panel is going to talk about
I've known Steve for years and consider
him a friend and without further ado let
me bring up Steve thanks Sam well we'll
get into the real numbers now but first
I want a brief interlude to talk about
Apple you know i'm sure most you know
about Steve Jobs announcement yesterday
and apart from the personal tragedy for
Steve I'm Apple is a great metaphor for
what we're talking about here because
it's one of the great venture companies
of all time and I've got a couple
personal connections that most of us
probably of an apple story but by sheer
coincidence I live two blocks from steve
jobs i go by his house all the time so
it's a very heartfelt but also a guy
from my school class of many years ago
guy named trip hawkins who went on to
fame at Electronic Arts in a few other
places but he happened to be the first
non engineer at apple and a couple
reasons as interesting one when he when
he told us how all he's going to go to
apple we'd never heard of it it was an
unknown company and yet in the span of
our lifetime it went from being a
complete unknown brand new company to
momentarily having the highest market
cap of
the company in the world and so I think
that's part of what you know brings us
all here is an investor's and service
providers to this area of Technology
because you can you see massive change
in much shorter time periods then really
any other industry in the world now
we're going to talk about venture
capital trends in the US this is
something we've been doing for 15 years
or so and if you want more information
there's a couple free websites there
that will have a thousand times what
we're going to talk about here today
this chart tracks venture capital
investment in the US by quarter over the
last handful years and you can see it's
been kind of you know up in the right
then collapsed in 08 no 9 and then went
back up and it's a little surprising
because we're probably going to talk
about a lot of the issues that are in
venture capital means it's it's an
industry that's in disequilibrium
because for the past couple years it's
invested much more than its raised the
exits don't support the current level of
investment so something has to change
and you know despite that you can see
investments actually up so far in 2011
back of you gave a historical
perspective you know we're on track to
do something like 25 billion of
investment in the US and even though
that's down from certainly the peak
years and down from just a couple years
ago you know it's way above anything
before roughly 1999 so so you know
there's certain vicissitudes right now
you know we're on a very high base
compared to his historic norms this
chart gives us idea why we're having
this meeting in Silicon Valley and why
it's packed because this is the mecca
for entrepreneurship and venture capital
around the world now you can see that
roughly forty percent of the venture
deals happen right in Silicon Valley and
another ten percent happened in Southern
California so half the venture capital
America goes into California and that's
been true for quite some time this is
the exact same data but just ranks order
so you can see the dominance of Silicon
Valley versus New England which is where
the industry started I mean 50 years ago
New England completely dominated venture
capital and about 20 or 30 years ago
Silicon Valley took over number one
and now it's quite dominant and I think
there's actually a good chance that in
the next 10 or 20 years Southern
California is going to take over from
boston for the number-2 area in the
country this is a this gives you a sense
of Silicon Valley's not only the
dominance but how it's changed one of
the things that's interesting is you
think of all the cities in America for
all the regions that are trying to be
the silicon fill in the blank Silicon
Forest silicon say in Silicon Alley etc
and you would think over time that they
would slowly chip away at Silicon
Valley's market share but in but in fact
you can see the exact reverse has
happened when we started these slides 95
Silicon Valley had about 20-some percent
of venture cap on the US and now it's
consistently in the high 30s even forty
percent it's actually gone up so there's
really been a very distinct flight to
quality and which is you know was not
obvious when this all started this chart
has lots of numbers on it but it tracks
venture capital investment just in
Silicon Valley this is dollars going
into Silicon Valley you can see over the
last 15 or so years by quarter and this
is all deals so Series A through series
ii and if you can read these numbers
from way back in the beginning and see
it not again 2011's gone up in Silicon
Valley about 2 to 3 billion dollars is
getting invested each quarter and I
think about a third of its from our
panel so they're very they're very
active and they all have big wallets and
they love to talk to people after the
panel the the next slide gives the exact
same data but just a number of deals
that are happening in a similar trend in
Silicon Valley again 200 to 300 deals
are happening each quarter so a lot of
volume I mean you remember this 12-week
quarters so a lot of deals are happening
just in Silicon Valley but you might ask
what about series a hasn't that kind of
collapsed as VCS have gone later stage
and you can see there there certainly
was a a depression so to speak of
silicon of series-a deals recently but
it's gone back up so if
in 2011 you can see it's heading back up
into the right two to three hundred
million dollars of series eight deals
just in Silicon Valley each quarter and
if you look at the number of deals again
it's fifty to a hundred series eight
deals in fact 110 in q2 you can see it
was one of the highest quarterly numbers
for Silicon Valley in the history of the
reporting this sorry charts investments
by round and I it's not clear what the
message if it just shows you how much
money is at different stages you know
not surprising there's a lot of money
for series a B and C but even later on
de etc there's still a lot of money
going to deals and in fact there was
even ten million that went into a series
s deal and that's not for Steve but and
I don't know how many of you have ever
been in a series s deal see no one ever
admits it you know it's like happy you
can never find who does them look at a
couple charts just by industry and this
is not much changed much in the last
couple years software is always almost
always the number one category has been
for most the entire period of the money
tree biotech and medical devices have
been two and three for quite some time
so the main changes here is you're
seeing some other categories run its
kind of there's more depth to the the
large categories and industrial and
energy which is really a surrogate for
cleantech has fallen a bit it's been you
know two three four for the last few
quarters and you can see it fell to
whatever that is six or seven so clean
text in a little bit of disarray as the
industry transitions from a lot of these
bigger capital intensive deals to more
capital efficient models this just shows
you how to exchange you can see software
has basically been the number one almost
every quarter for the last few but
otherwise you know you can see the
various market shares or the other
categories this tracks investments by
stage no big surprise here most of the
money's is
anshan and later stage and that has
changed over the last 10 or so years and
if you look at the same data by round of
funding you can see it the biggest chunk
of money is going in the fifth round and
Beyond and ten years ago that would have
been a very small number and that's one
of the reasons that returns have been
modest by historical comparisons over
the last ten years because there's so
much money that has to be it has to go
into these companies for such a long
period of time you look at the the good
news is if you're lucky enough to raise
money is a quick pop quiz so what what
percentage of people wandering around
Silicon Valley ever get any money the
answer is 0.5 percent roughly so for
those of you they're out fundraising or
you know want to be entrepreneurs just
know this is a hard game and it's
something that people don't talk about
very much and certainly coming from
schools like Berkeley you always assume
you're going to raise money but the
statistics are not quite as optimistic
so you know just keep in mind this is a
tough slog and you got to work hard and
get lucky but if the good news is if you
get money you're likely to get quite a
bit at least by historical standards we
can see a median it's been about three
or four million over the last few years
in fact the 3 million you get now you'll
probably has a lot more purchasing power
than the four or five million you got
several years ago just because most of
the things people spend money on
especially in software companies cost a
lot less now than they did a handful of
years ago these are the top 10 deals in
the US and a couple of things of note 1
Silicon Valley is just three of the top
ten deal so it's a little lower than
normal but also remember this isn't an
era where the median exit is something
like 80 90 100 million dollars and yet
you can see all of these deals except
one are at or above the median so this
is a little bit like Garrison Keillor's
joke about you know parents think all
their kids are above average in the same
thing they these everyone thinks you
know these are going to be the big
winners but ever this is true every
quarter there's always quite a few deals
that are getting a lot of money even in
an era where bc's talked a lot about
capital efficiency these are the most
active investors defined by just number
of deals this could be see
is a through series ii i doesn't matter
and it could be anywhere in the US you
can see where they're headquartered but
most of these people do deals all over
anyone from Kansas in the audience okay
well if you want to go home there's hope
now and then the next one what do we
look at in the exits there's a lot of
numbers here but the main news is in the
IPO market has had a brief resurgence in
last year I think the jury is out
whether that the resurgence has come to
a grinding halt now with the chaos in
the markets but there's been you can see
there's been a few more IPO is the last
few quarters the last couple years we
had 75 venture-backed IPOs you know in
2010 and we were on track through the
first half to do about another 70 or 75
right now that number looks pretty
unlikely so we're probably going to have
a dip this year and certainly either of
those numbers is a are cry from the
numbers we saw in the mid to late 90s ma
is a little healthier there's a lot of
transactions that's the good news the
bad news is a lot of compression on
prices unless you're in a particularly
hot sector fundraising I looted to
earlier VCS have invested 20 to 30
billion a year over the last couple
years and you can see in 2010 they
raised 10 billion 2009 they raised I'm
sorry 13 and 16 and throw out there on a
path they were on a path to do pretty
well but q1 was a little misleading
because there were a few mega funds that
raise money and q 2 kind of went back to
the new norm so if fundraising is still
very difficult there's a lot of VCS that
are very concerned with raising their
next fun so there's a lot of summary
there's a lot of good news and not so
good news we've talked about most of
this but I will allude to the
advertising a bullet point which is
we're still in the early stages of a
migration from of media from traditional
platforms of movies TV and
where the big money goes to the internet
and mobile and a couple couple facts
about seven percent of media dollars
right now going to the internet mobile
and yet we spend about twenty percent of
our media time on the internet and one
truism of media advertising as those
numbers tend to converge over time so I
think you know over the next ten or
twenty years you're going to see a big
onslaught of media dollars that go from
traditional media into internet and
mobile and that's going to fund a lot of
the investments that you're seeing now
but things aren't all so good we've
alluded to most of these things returns
have been very modest by historic
standards the last ten years in the
venture industry the government is
coming in with more regulation the VC
market itself is in disequilibrium a
couple things that are going on a lot of
ecs are not doing new deals are
concerned about raising the next fund a
lot of job creation historically in
history has come through IPOs and if I
POS go down again that that will reduce
the number of jobs get created through
venture we talked about fundraising I'll
just touch on a few of these a prominent
VC recently did a all caught an informal
study that claims that ninety-seven
percent of the profits in the industry
come from 15 companies every year let's
say there's a little hyperbole on both
ends but even if you think ninety
percent come from 30 companies it still
begs the question of how many vc's do
you need to find the best 30 companies
every year right now the answer is about
three or four thousand
now they occasionally and but yeah so
but one of the things you hear a lot
these days is you know the industry is
bad but my portfolio is great so you
know there's a lot of concern about you
know portfolios throughout the industry
and a lot of a lot of funds oops a lot
of funds that have not raised money in
the last three or four years are
probably in deep trouble globalization
of theme so you've heard a lot about
China and India I get most of the press
but we're seeing a lot of activity in
South America and Russia and other
countries I won't touch on each of those
points but just focus on a couple David
Rubin seen the head of Carlisle having
to mention that China has been the
number one economy 15 the last 18th
centuries so just because they've had a
couple bad centuries I wouldn't rule
them out you know they're used to being
on top and but despite that India the
current population changes is actually
going to be in number one in population
in about ten years or so and that could
change the conversation about where the
largest domestic markets which translate
into more venture funding etc and with
that I'll turn it over back to Sam
thank you Steve as always very
entertaining I'd like to invite the
panel up now why introduce them briefly
and I'll ask that once I do you give a
short synopsis of your focus and who you
are as Steve said this is a very
interesting time a lot of contradictions
in the numbers a lot of deals getting
done very early stage but exits are
depressed and there's a lot of price
compression you don't see a lot of more
difficult to raise money for venture
capitalists so this this will be a very
interesting panel so to my to my right
here is Aiden son kit he's the founder
and president of police ventures Aiden
focuses on seed financings has been
doing it for years formerly was at
Google next to him is Howard heart and
bomb a partner at August capital Howard
was one of the founding investors of
skype and before that rather after that
was at Draper Richards before August and
last but not least is Joe Kraus a
partner at Google Ventures Joe is a
two-time entrepreneur founder co-founder
of excited home and jot spot as well and
and so gentlemen let's get started given
the time we don't we have about 40
minutes I'm told so the focus of today's
panel is on the state of early-stage
investor investing 2008-2009 saw a
collapse in the market mainly due to the
financial crisis and the mortgage
mortgage crisis since that time the
markets come back with a vengeance and
in fact there's talk today of there
being a bubble notwithstanding the
comments that Steve made and you see in
the press and you here investors
complaining that valuations are out of
whack and and that it that entrepreneurs
have unrealistic expectations I'd like
to get your perspective on at a high
level in the general state of the market
for early stage at this point
so certainly there's an upward price
movement in the market but I also think
that the market has gotten a lot more
sophisticated as for myself I've been an
angel for five years and a small seed
fund for the last year two of the
biggest deals we've done were outside of
the US that doesn't mean we're still
doing ninety percent of our deals in the
US but it just means that all of us
venture capitalists have to work that
much harder to find those great founders
and great companies and that's one of
the things I think makes it really
interesting 15 companies generate
ninety-seven percent of the profits but
you got to find out where they are but I
also think that the market fluctuations
continue but as long as you find great
companies those will also make up for
the great exits the best companies don't
always come very cheap anything to add I
don't know I guess what I would say is
it's always dangerous to opine on this
particular topic because how do you know
when you're actually in the bubble the
last time we had a bubble I think there
were what a few hundred million people
online today there's estimates of like
two to two-and-a-half billion people
online so yes prices certainly feel
inflated at the at the low end but at
the same time the market is probably ten
times bigger than it was the last time
we experienced a bubble and prices
aren't ten times higher than they were
even kind of pre bubble so I don't know
I would argue that yes certainly prices
feel high at the seed investment stage
but the other piece is that the market
is so much bigger than its historically
been so all of us invest our funds over
a multi-year cycle so just because
prices rise and fall during that time
period if we perceive the prices are a
little bit higher maybe we do a few less
deals during that time period but on
average as long as you don't pile all
your money in when you when the market
is at a very high price on average
portfolio mechanism works for an
investor yeah the other piece i would
say here is that you know it's fo mo or
fear of missing out drives a huge amount
of investor behavior it's really
actually troubling and so you
in these cycles where memories are short
prices go up quickly and that prices
tend to go up quickly not because the
deals are necessarily better but because
fo mo has a way of being very contagious
and so I think that maybe we're in a
slightly heightened sense of foam o
going on in the investing world right
now and to add one more thing from your
guys perspective if you you know you're
hearing about these really high prices
for deals and investors are making quick
decisions and they're investing money at
high prices or convertible notes with no
prices on them and that seems all great
until you realize that because it's
easier to raise money you have four
competitors that were funded that are
exactly the same as you who got funded
very easily and the end result might
mean the initial result is well look at
the great price we got look at all the
money we raised but the end result might
be all five companies fail because they
all fight against each other with too
much money so what may you may think is
a blessing may actually be actually
quite bad for everybody in the mix yes
venture fratricide is the term of art
well couldn't another dynamic be in play
here besides would you call it fo mo fo
mo mo you've got a change in how
expensive it is to start a company it's
now extremely easy cost-effective things
that used to cost a lot now cost very
little you've got what you described Joe
as a huge class of people who are now
online and we also have a couple cycles
of new successful entrepreneurs who have
a lot of money to invest and who may be
interested in not in making money in
returning investment to limited partners
but actually to getting involved in
helping entrepreneurs not to say that
any of you aren't interested in that as
well so I'd be curious to get your
perspectives on the rise of this class
of angels and super angels and what type
of distortion or effect that has on
venture generally on the bigger funds
and the who traditionally would invest
in series a rounds but now are competing
in some cases with forums and angels
well again I would say it's it's kind of
a mixed blessing if you know angels are
investing a lot and the prices are
higher than a professional venture
investor might do it may seem great and
you decide to take the money from angels
at a great price but then two years from
now when the economy is in a crappy
situation and prices are very low and
you need money you don't have a partner
who can give you money and you have a
bunch of angels who get scared because
their stock portfolios are down and you
say I need five hundred thousand dollars
to make payroll and they're like sorry
but if you had worked with a
professional investor like any of us you
know when times are tough we have
reserves and money set aside for our
companies to keep them help out so it's
sort of it's a like I said mixed
blessing or it's a trade-off and you
have to make the decision do you want
you know the most money at the highest
price and the quickest amount of time
with the least due diligence or do you
want somebody who may be a longer term
partner you may have to sell at a
slightly lower price or even a
significantly lower price but it's
somebody who will stick around when the
times are tough who can help you out and
it's just a trade-off that entrepreneurs
have to make there certainly is the
trade-off I guess it is happening though
that that this this sort of competitive
landscape for early stage investment is
happening I I actually think it can be
great and the reason is that it's you
know for so there's some interesting
data here first half of all the deals
that made for fun makers essentially the
biggest deals turned out to be under
subscribed in there a and B rounds what
does that mean what it really means is
that professional pickers like us are
really actually not that good at picking
we think we are we tell ourselves we are
we want to believe we are we're all
trying to do well but the reality is the
data would say we're not as good at
picking as we think we are or perhaps
the people that give us money think we
should be as a result more things funded
at the bottom probably yield more
opportunities for those in in later
stages of investing to actually pick
among winners without having to fund
them so I actually think it can be good
overall as long as people stay somewhat
disciplined and discipline is not an
easy thing as an investor again with
foam oh being a driving force the second
piece that that's in there is that I
think traditional angels are taking a
huge amount of risk that they don't
necessarily understand you actually look
at the numbers the mean return in seed
investing is quite Heights depending on
which studies you're looking at in which
data sets you're looking at between 23
and 27 percent irr but what's poorly
understood is how many how much
diversity you need in order to achieve
that mean with any reliable likelihood
and it turns out the number of deals you
need to achieve the mean returns in the
seed space is between 80 and 100 per
fund most angels can't do 80 to 100
deals they just don't have the capital
to do that and the reason that is is
that angel investing just fundamentally
as much as we think we're good pickers
is buying lottery tickets and and the
reason is that you know having started a
couple of companies and I'm also a very
competitive poker player in any time
that they're related now in right yeah
anytime i'm playing a single hand i
could be playing against the world's
best player and i have a legitimate shot
at beating them in that hand because
luck plays a huge role over time skill
emerges and i would lose a lot of money
to that world you know the best players
by far in any given seed company luck
plays a huge role as to whether that
company succeeds or fails which is why
portfolio is really necessary to
actually achieve and find one of those
lottery tickets that explodes and makes
all your returns and so it's true in any
stage of investing but it's particularly
true at seed investing and so I just
think there's some interesting cognitive
dissonance between a professional
investors thinking they're better
pickers than they are be angel investors
who have limited portfolios or taking
far greater risk than they think they
are and see the real amount of diversity
you need to actually achieve and pursue
a seed based strategy is
bigger than people think well I think
from just to add to that from your
perspective I think it's a good thing
when i started angel investing five
years ago I think the active angels I
would say maybe we're in the two digits
at least in my network now there is
probably i can say hundreds if not
thousands of angels and i think that's a
really good thing it gives you so many
more opportunities to get funding I
think the scene has gotten also a lot
more sophisticated I don't think it's
just about angels and VCs now you have
some new sites like Angel list and
Kickstarter that kind of gives you other
options I think that's a good thing but
that still doesn't get you to a
successful company and I think you know
one of the other side of what Joe's
saying is that not every investor is
created equal obviously first you need
to get funding and make sure you have
enough cash to your ear on your company
but I think more and more we're seeing
that the the investors that are rising
to the top have operational experience
and they're making a big difference for
their companies in terms of critical
moments in their company's life and
sometimes that's as important as the
cash if not more important and if you
can strike a good balance between those
two you're likely to do very well yeah
and I don't mean to suggest that angels
and VCs their strategies are in conflict
in fact I think there's a lot of cage
match a lot of harmony they're actually
because the most interesting dynamic
that I've observed as a service provider
is who controls a lot of the decisions
get that to get made around funding who
controls the deal flow and ten years ago
used to be VCS marching up to Sand Hill
Road making pitches directly to VCS but
what's happened now is you've got this
class of influencers and it idn't
touched on them who get to these deals
very early and now have become almost
gatekeepers of some sort but that can be
I think a very cooperative relationship
because a lot of these gatekeepers and
angels don't have the wherewithal is
Howard pointed out to fund companies
that need expansion capital or just to
be able to continually fund companies
round after round
what are your thoughts on that well let
me let me add a point to that I mean I
think Joe had some really great numbers
and I certainly agree with some of the
things he mentioned that the one thing I
disagree with a little bit is that
investors can't be Pickers one of the
interesting realities that I found in
experiences you know when I look back
our fun had a dozen and a half exits and
I think that's enough data points and I
look back and say okay you know what
were some of the common stats and I
think when I look now what are the
companies that are doing well in our
portfolio half of those did not come
through our door and ask us for money
those companies were actually doing
extremely well in some cases never raise
money and we realize because of our
focus we need to go find these companies
and get involved with them so it's an
interesting dynamic right i mean i
participate a lot in these panels and i
really want to work with a lot of great
entrepreneurs but also the reality is if
you know in our in our space if you want
to be successful sometimes means
actually getting a hold of those
entrepreneurs that are doing really well
that are bootstrapping that might need
not need financing and become their
partners so it's not about capital which
I believe is a commodity and it's not it
you know for the right people with the
right plan the marketplace works itself
and the capital finds its rightful place
so I would just add that perspective so
I don't want to argue with Joe on data
we sit on a board together and he's a
lot smarter than me so I i won't i won't
go with disagreement there i will say
that you know Aiden has proven himself
to be a good picker and the numbers bear
that out and one thing to think of you
know you know and Joe comments that you
can't really you know show to be a good
picker but one thing that's not obvious
in the venture industry is while there
may be hundreds of venture capital firms
there's probably you know 20 or 30 that
actually make money consistently over
time and frankly I think aiden has come
in he looks like he's coming into that
group and good for him so so the point
being that you know picking or not
picking the trick is to be at the high
end of the food chain and see the best
deals and have a chance to look at them
because you're aggressive and you go out
and find them
or because your your firm like sequoia
capital for example everybody you know
beats on their door to get in there but
by the time the top 20 you know 15 or 20
venture firms have said no to accompany
the odds are it's probably not one of
the big hits and then it moves down to
the you know other venture firms who
didn't have first crack in it so it's
not like every firm has the same chance
to pick at every company that comes out
there it's actually the top firms have
the opportunity to pick first and then
once it's picked through then it moves
down so it causes a slightly different
dynamic I think than just it's a it's a
mutual fun type of situation and there's
no doubt sorry being the Google guy have
to be data oriented I guess there's no
doubt there's strong performance
persistence in the in the venture
capital industry meaning those firms
that have been on top tend to persist
and stay on top and there's a lot of
interesting questions as to why and I
don't think it's a well answered
question one of the things that is true
and this from an entrepreneurs point of
view should think about one of the key
determiners of success from a data point
of view is how well networked are you
and how well networked is your VC or
your angel investor meaning there's a
very strong positive correlation between
high Network centrality of investor and
high Network centrality of the
entrepreneur me give you some examples
if you're an entrepreneur and you're
based in New York and that's where your
network is if you move to San Francisco
you act and let's say sorry you're in
New York you've started a company before
it had a successful exit if you start
another company in New York you're over
fifty percent more likely to have
another success than a first-time
entrepreneur that data is pretty well
studied and understood the if you move
back to San Francisco outside of your
network you revert to having the same
chance of success as a first-time
entrepreneur and the primary reason is
you lose your network what is losing
your network actually practically mean
it means that it makes it harder for you
to hire because you don't know people to
hire right away you have fewer people
that you can vet and it means you
operate more slowly because you can't
ramp up as quickly second is you
actually have a harder time putting your
company I have a belief that most
companies are sold not bought you've got
people interested in
juiced up about your vision a lower
network means that you basically have
fewer opportunities to get into people
easily that you're that are trusted and
actually put your company to them if the
time is is if the time if you've reached
the time or you need to do that on the
VC front there's an odd phenomenon which
is that as a VC you actually have an
incentive to do deals with highly
networked investors as a syndicate
partner because it turns out if I do a
deal with a highly networked syndicate
partner all of my deals benefit not just
the deal we work on together so Howard's
firm August is a high Network son highly
networked central investor the fact that
we're co invested in a deal together
means to all of my other deals benefit
probably because since Howard and I have
a relationship he'll give me advice on
some deal that we're not together in and
help me make a connection so the advice
back to you guys is as you think about
who you're taking your money from
network Centrella t of your investors
matters quite a bit and making sure
you're staying in your area of where
your network is is really important
excellent excellent point what about
relationships between entrepreneurs and
investors it seems to me that the odds
changed dramatically if you've had a
success if you've had a success versus
the first time that that is a huge risk
mitigation from an investor's standpoint
especially if you've had success with
that investor let me take a different
point on that i wish i had more
organized and structured data like joe
i'm really enjoying actually listening
to him but one thing that i found is
that especially we just had a meeting on
it today interestingly enough most of
the companies that we're invested that
it's doing well our first-time
entrepreneurs and some of the celebrity
deals where you have entrepreneurs that
are well what kind of a well known
quantity or quality is not necessarily
doing better now of course I'm talking
from a very limited set but one thing
that I wanted to bring up that I'm
really happy to Joe Joe mention about
the network one thing that's different
about being on the panel this year for
me versus last year up until last year I
was investing my own money and I felt
you know I'm sitting across the table
from entrepreneurs and I
work for Google early on but I never
raise money for google and it was the
first time I actually went out and went
to LPS and had to raise money for my
phone I was an entrepreneur like
yourself I probably had tens of meetings
and one thing that I learned is not only
is it your job number one to network but
it was amazing how much I learned not
having anybody who's helping me being a
first-time partner and having been told
repeatedly that a first-time fun with a
single partner basically doesn't stand a
chance to raise money I was able to
raise money from really reputable
investors and it was amazing that i
probably had hundred fifty versions of
my deck and when i compare what I first
started with it how ridiculous it looks
to what it looks like 150 presentations
later I was a maid I'm like the dis guy
to some fundraising school or hired
consultants and it was pure shear
resilience and experience and just like
going one after another and it was
amazing how much I learned some of my
best investors were third contact like
some investor who just like blew me off
that that I found some other investors
who blew me off who then like got me to
the right investor but the only way I
could find that out was to actually go
through those meetings and I guess what
I wanted to know is I know it's really
frustrating to show up to these things
you talk to investors you don't get a
response in you're like man this sucks
is terrible I had like ten of these
things it might have to be that you have
to take 150 of those things but that's I
think the five or ten percent different
between equally smart number of you
we're like five percent is that
Brazilian says you know what I'm not
going to give up just continue doing
that that doesn't mean they're much
smarter of you or better than you but
they might just have a slightly better
plan and stick to it and just stick
through until there is a yes at the end
whatever that comes from yeah can I I
want to double down on persistence here
for a second that was blackjack term not
a poker term um so uh I do love gambling
I have to say um and now he does it with
Google's money yeah exactly
true I'll tell a story from my
entrepreneurial days so I was 23 years
old when we were starting excite which
was an early search engine back in there
in the early 90s we had raised money
from kleiner perkins we'd raised three
million dollars but it was in two
tranches we had a million and a half in
our first tranche we had a million
dollars left at this time and we had
launched the service and back in those
days nuts Cape was by far the dominant
browser I mean they had 95 eight percent
hundred percent market share and there
were two buttons on the browser one
called net search and one called net
directory and they they were the
beachfront real estate in the internet
at the time where if you clicked on
search net search that went to one
company and directory went to yahoo and
so they were putting they'd never put
these buttons up for bid they were just
free traffic and Mike Homer the former
VP of Marketing at Netscape got smart
was like well crap this is worth a lot
of money so they put him up for bid and
there were three bidders us info seek
and MCI three companies that don't exist
anymore actually and we had a million
dollars in the bank and we were trying
to figure out what do we bid and I I
remember this very clearly we had gone
around and around we were sitting in my
grungy office and Vinod Khosla who is
our backer was was sitting on the floor
and we were debating a debating and
finally goes we're gonna bid three
million dollars and I'm like if I know
we don't have three million dollars what
do we like what are you talking about
and he gave me that look which he gave
me for eight years straight which is
like you're an idiot and he said look
bottom line is if we win it we're gonna
be able to raise the money easily and if
we don't we're out of business so we're
gonna bid three million dollars went all
right we're bending three million
dollars so we did three million dollars
and we lose and Vinod was really the one
who taught me this lesson
the strongest time then and it was just
it never ended he said we're going to
act like it's not over we're going to
sit in their lobby every day unannounced
we're going to demand meetings with the
vp of marketing we're going to call the
CEO every day we are going to act like
complete asses until we get this thing
back it is not over and we did it we
literally did that for 17 days straight
I felt like an a-hole and 17 days later
when MC I couldn't deliver we want it
back and i will tell you today that we
would not have sold that company for six
billion dollars had we not persisted
persistence as iden says it's the number
one key success factor in
entrepreneurship in my opinion the
negotiation begins at no it doesn't
begin when they smile and say okay so a
little personal story there a great
story well why don't we when we build on
that and I'd like to know from each of
you what is the most profound experience
you've had as an investor and from that
profound I mean the most important
lesson you've take taken away from from
an experience and I know I put you on
the spot here because I didn't give you
any advance warning but so I'll start in
and talk about entrepreneurs and boards
supporting them in the case of skype and
the lesson being on the other side
saying no when people offer to buy you
and when skype launched and had very
early growth a few weeks later at the
next board meeting one of the board
members said oh by the way the CEO of
AOL called me and he offered 400 million
dollars in cash for your business and I
said no all right what's next
and the entrepreneurs like stop demand
what do you mean and you know four
hundred million dollars in cash is a lot
of money and I said well yeah adds a lot
of money but if somebody's willing to
offer you 400 without having any data
somebody else will be willing to offer
800 if if you if they see the data and
the entrepreneurs they you know they
wrung their hands a little bit we went
to dinner and they drank a little bit
too much and they said god I hope we're
not making a mistake but we believe this
is a great company and about two months
later a friend of mine from MIT Nicholas
Negroponte it was running the media lab
who is good personal friends with Rupert
Murdoch calls me up and says he Howard
you know would 850 million from from
News Corp do it to buy skype so I said
well I I don't think so because I think
they're thinking a billion and a half I
just figured it would just double it and
so I called the founders and I said you
know didn't the board tell you it's
going to double again and they said yeah
now the price is a billion and a half
and so time went on a little bit further
and the next call was from yahoo and the
number they said well maybe maybe we
could do a billion and a half and
instantly the founders price became
three billion yeah and that is that what
they ended up selling it for the first
time around right and we all read that
they sold it recently for eight and a
half billion dollars so the truth being
if you have a company that's interesting
and it's making progress and everything
is going in in the right direction the
fact that somebody wants to buy it from
you and is coming at you and trying to
pay for it just always you know double
the price in your mind and luckily
you'll be ahead of what the market is a
little bit for that time being but
pretty soon you'll get that offer and
you'll realize the longer you wait the
more it's working no that's assuming
everything is going in the right
direction so let me take the other side
of it and at first let me start by
saying I hope every one of you that are
aspiring entrepreneurs end up in that
situation and you can say no to 400
million and hopefully you get a better
outcome so the interesting part of it is
I think before I start
from my own experience I want to relate
to two anecdotes that I had in my career
one was we recently had a founder event
and really really well-known investor
came and he was talking to about 80 of
our founders and they asked him you know
what do you look for in a companies and
what do you think is a great asset in a
founder he said something very
interesting he said two things number
one he said when we were raising our
company we had such a big vision that
investors were willing to invest
hundreds of millions of dollars with us
the second thing he said is that you
know when the entrepreneur comes and
talks to me what I'm really looking for
is an idea that is so compelling that
when that entrepreneur CEO goes out and
is hiring their 17th employee the 17th
or 27 or 37 it's still as excited as the
first one despite having much less
equity in the company that they so get
excited about the vision that they still
want to join the company and work for
the CEO and I think the moral of the
story relating also my experience of
having had the chance to work early for
Larry Page it was one of the most
intimidating things I ever done because
everything that I thought I'm like oh my
god I've worked 24 hours a day worked my
butt off he's gonna like this he would
just looked at it and like nahas crap
you know can do a hundred times better
than that and what he really taught me
is that as human beings were incremental
thinkers and we always kind of shoot low
and he's like time is limited you know
you have life and you feel like you have
a lot of time but you don't so if you're
going to do something everything is
going to take the same amount of time so
do something that is really meaningful
and it's really going to move the needle
and when I think back and think like oh
I wish I could say I have a crystal ball
somewhere that comes in and you know I
can tell but there's been some instances
like mint which was a really great
outcome for me where the entrepreneur
came and he had a half baked product and
he didn't come and say I'm building some
you know financial software he said you
know what there was a problem in the US
you know people have a lot of them I
want to create a product that's going to
like affect everybody in the US and make
them smarter about their finances and
make them safe and you know he captured
I mean maybe it sounds really cheesy
maybe or like oh yeah of course you know
after the exit you can say that but he
definitely came and he was so convinced
and he was like a prophet I'm like this
is my thing I'm gonna make this happen
and he sold me on it
right and somebody else could have been
maybe even smarter and could have had a
better product but if they don't have
that kind of a belief of this is what
I'm going to do this is how I'm going to
change the world and somebody else comes
in to me and says you know what I have
this product it's like one percent
better than this and you know I don't
have any employees if I raise money I'm
going to build the product that doesn't
really capture my imagination so I think
it's definitely a food for thought in
terms of you know when you're when
you're doing something I think it is
really truly important that you have
gone through all the different things
and skepticism in your head and when
you're talking about it you've done your
homework and you really believe in it
and you're ready to sell it no matter
what happens even if it takes hundred
fifty or 200 meetings to get to the
point where you need to get to excellent
excellent well let's talk about
compelling ideas and and what you're
seeing more specifically what you're
really excited about in the industry
what your fund is focused on what are
the big big ideas that you think are out
there that you're that you're going to
invest in everybody's looking at me
scary your turn it's my turn back for
you so you know I'm relatively new as a
professional investor I angel invested
for about 10 years and then move from
kind of a dabbler to add a timer about a
year and a half ago almost two years ago
so I don't have the same level of
experience certainly as Howard does as a
professional investor my own sense is
that there's things you say you're
interested in on your website and then
there's the deals that you do and so
where are those deals okay so well the
point I want to make here is that
serendipity plays a big role because the
market is far more imaginative in
aggregate than I am and so seeing and
hearing lots of interesting things you
end up kind of getting some sense of
it's like hiring engineers you know you
you
founders and somebody who's hired 10
engineers really has a hard time knowing
good from great but if you've seen a
thousand engineering done a thousand
engineering interviews you kind of know
good from great and I think the same is
true in anything as you see more and
more deals you have a better sense of
what is an absolute maximum and minimum
versus a local maximum and minimum in
terms of something interesting so for me
at least the the last the last deal i
did was actually on the board and I was
kind of scared to see it on the board
which is Kabam they're a social gaming
company focused on hardcore gamer so
most of like most of Zynga's audience is
actually seventy percent female cabana
audience is seventy percent male and i
happen to love personally the gaming
space mainly because i think virtual
goods is such a pricing price efficient
way of making one night again so what I
mean specifically I make it of what yeah
so the specifically what's interesting I
think most people in virtual goods are
more amazed that like how and why on
earth does somebody spend all that money
on nothing and but the the more
interesting kind of higher level point
from a business point of view is that
today in the gaming world packaged goods
gaming everybody pays the same price
ever paid sixty bucks for a cartridge
and a guy like me who has no time I
might play a game three times and
somebody who's hardcore might play it
for 50 60 hours but we both pay the same
price it doesn't actually make any sense
virtual goods allow for a a far greater
fit to the demand curve of what people
pay because I don't pay anything if I'm
just a casual player and there are some
people that literally will dump that I'm
not kidding you like thirty thousand
dollars into a game and they obviously
play it a lot but that's really
interesting to me that you take an
industry where everybody was paying the
same price too much more of an AdWords
auction-based kind of model where you
have a much more efficient fitting to
that demand curve so that's why I happen
to like gaming
so I don't know the end Sam asked you
know what we're interested in what we're
looking for I think there's you know
generally two types of investors out
there there's those who like to kind of
analyze the whole market and decide what
they're going to invest in before they
see it you know we are not we but
another fun might see we are a clean
tech fund focused on the efficiency of
solar technology or there might be a fun
that says we focus on software as a
service for enterprise supply chain
solutions whatever and there's that type
of investor we're where the opposite we
can and we have a problem with this with
our LPS our investors is they come in
and we say we're raising a new fund and
we would like their money and they say
well what are you going to do with it
and our answer is we'll know it when we
see it and you know we describe
ourselves as being completely
opportunistic and you know if somebody
sends us a presentation and it looks
like other stuff that we've seen before
and there's five of them or they're a
couple are funded already we usually
just ignore it and say it's just not a
fit it's the things that we haven't
really thought about that much before
but our new and creating a new market
space that didn't exist before that
catches our attention and the belief
being the the most interesting companies
are usually interesting meaning the
largest are usually companies like that
and to give you a few examples in the in
the past and then kind of maybe to that
I'm working on now in the past of my
partners backed companies like seagate I
Pharos you know what if we could send
you know data through the air wow what a
wonderful idea Wi-Fi chips into it
shopping Postini xilinx Microsoft I mean
Microsoft had a VC I don't know how many
of you guys know that he's guy named
Dave Marquardt he's very low-key he's
been on the board for 30 years and he
bought in at a 19 million dollar
valuation I mean that was a good deal
back at that time you know Microsoft
that's a crazy company you know they
really you know
IBM said that's not possible it's not
going to work I'm two of the
opportunistic investments that we did
recently one of them happens to be one
that Joe and I were equal co-investors
on the deal is a company called
RelayRides which is a person-to-person
car sharing company it's basically thing
zipcar but our customers on the cars so
you know we all own cars and they sit on
the street Sun use much of the time and
relayrides job is to make it available
for our neighbors to use them use the
cars when we're not using them and the
goal of the company is to get the
average monthly check size up to 250 300
bucks a month so that the people who own
the cars effectively have their cars for
free and their neighbors who just borrow
the car is whenever they need them and
pay like Zipcar seven eight nine bucks
an hour to go to the market to go to the
doctor or take their dog to be washed so
everybody's a winner in that model and
if there's a company in the middle
that's taking a buck every time somebody
rented that could be a really
interesting business and when Joe and I
were looking at it and thinking about
the scale we're like wow you know we
never really thought about this before
how big can it be and we kind of came
down to the solution that if there's 245
million passenger cars in the US and we
can get one quarter of one percent
renting a few hundred bucks a month it's
a couple billion dollars a year in
revenue so yeah that's big enough so we
made the bet and it's still an early
company but it's very interesting just
to give you an example a very
opportunistic investment we didn't sit
around and say oh we should go find a
person-to-person car sharing company you
know the entrepreneur came in and said
listen to my idea I'm another one I'm an
investor in which is in alpha testing
that's not available yet but I'll talk
I'm sure they won't mind as a company
called bubbly and what they have
developed is the possibility to make a
spherical photograph so rather than
looking at a photograph as something
that's flat that has been specified by
the person taking the picture instead
you stand in the center of the picture
and you look in a complete sphere
through a device that has a gyro and you
can look up or you can look down and you
can look behind you and if you when it's
launched and use and you see
you'll say wow teleportation exists
because you can literally feel like with
a piece of glass the size of this iPad
you can feel like you're standing in
another part of the world and you're
looking at what you want to look at and
it's actually just a spherical
photograph now we would never have come
up with that but some really smart
entrepreneurs came and said look what
look what we're doing and we made a bet
on them so if you're that kind of guy or
girl you come to us well I think we have
a completely different approach than
Howard are and i'm really glad these
work and and i'm really glad that he's
finding these great companies you know
when i mentioned to you that i was
fundraising i think what i realize is
that you need to be that more and more
that much more discipline about how to
stand out in a sea of investors and what
I'm seeing is that the time for a deal
to close as you know come down from
three months to like a week in some
instances so I thought okay there are
like 10 to 100 times more investors the
time is like getting short and I want to
reach the world's best investors a best
founder just like every every other
investor how do I do that I thought the
best way to do that is actually to earn
it and to actually call your luck and
our strategy is really simple I think
there are only two things that matter in
successful companies number one they're
growing really fast so 18 months ago
when I looked at the industry i said
look there are three obvious things that
are growing really fast one is mobile
the second one is ecommerce trade is
trade it doesn't get censored it's
growing all around the world especially
faster outside of the US and then the
third thing was the change in enterprise
we don't really use install software
anymore ten years ago everything I did
was install software today I'm running
everything in the cloud and I run my
business from my phone so it's a
completely different universe and then
the second part was as an investor one
of the things we didn't get control is
you know of course we can go after
entrepreneurs but we don't necessarily
see the entrepreneurs that we would like
like again the things that move the
needle for people like Howard I just am
NOT the kind of person who likes to wait
I like to change my chances by being
active about this I thought what are the
big markets that are so big that not
only is there space for great companies
to be built but we are not seeing enough
entrepreneurs health care
right I mean I must have seen 37
different mobile photo companies but I
probably seen only five entrepreneurs
that want to build a software company in
the healthcare space because it's tough
it's difficult but it's also a trillion
dollar market so I met an entrepreneur
named Ryan Howard who's building a
company called practice Fusion where
people thought I was crazy to invest
where the guy mortgaged his house to
start the company and sold this car and
used the money to start the company and
started with 5,000 practitioners now he
has over 100,000 practitioners um and I
also think about areas like education
you know we complained about
unemployment in the u.s. because
education is broken and it has to be
reinvented and so I I found this great
guy from Apple that before iPad came out
he said I want to build a company that's
going to reinvent book for the area of
mobile devices before even the ipad came
out and I'm like that's exactly the kind
of entrepreneur that I wanted to find in
education and that company turned out to
be inkling and now is churning out some
amazing products you can check it out on
the iPad it's available and so and then
there are two other areas energy
conservation and personalized medicine
again each one of these are
trillion-dollar areas and we're not
trying to do everything in these markets
we're just trying to find software
companies and great entrepreneurs that
want to carve some new rich Nicias
coming back to the comment also in terms
of you know how like you don't know what
you don't know until it comes to the
door i also had this argument with again
a reputable investor who told me you
know i'm not really sure your strategy
is going to work I think the I think the
exact example that was used the zinger
of mobile is Inga and I said you know
the zing go mobile could be a different
company in this case could be like Rovio
which by the way we're one of the
investors and took me 10 months to get
into that deal and I had to fly to three
different countries in two different
continents to be able to close that in
to kind of make another point in
resilience so and it turns out in that
company is now being used by 120 million
daily active when I first started
talking to the company that 12 million
downloads now they have 300 million
downloads I think they have become a pop
icon I know people that made fun of it
just
stupid mobile game with a funny name it
turns out that there is more to it so um
you know again I think I'm trying to put
myself in your shoes and almost every
entrepreneur that comes through my door
has tried to look me up on LinkedIn read
my blog read anything about me in the
news to know what I know so I think as
investors we cannot be passive anymore
we cannot just wait in an office and
wait for people to filter through and
say yeah I kind of like your pitch i'm
going to put money into your company
that's a big idea i think we really need
to do homework and the only way to kind
of keep up in this fast-moving world
where the deals are getting really close
and some of the great entrepreneurs we
might not even hear of is to actually
put ourselves out there and makes
ourselves vulnerable and also kind of
like put it out in terms of what we
believe in is going to work to kind of
put ourselves an equal footing with the
entrepreneurs that are looking for
funding fantastic i want to ask a last
question before we move to questions
from the audience Steve in his
presentation sort of pointed out how
difficult in the numbers point to how
difficult it is to raise money point oh
five percent I think you said actually
are successful raising money but the the
ethos the sense I get in the valley is
that it feels much more active and
easier to raise money I've heard that
failure is a very important thing a bit
very important part of being an
entrepreneur and I'd like to hear from
each of the panelists either what you've
gone through in terms of failure and
what you've learned from it either
personally or from your portfolio
company and and the lessons taken away
from that um i have i have a few
thoughts here one is that i think one of
the lessons that i also took away
besides persistence was opportunity
leads to opportunity in ways you really
can't predict my wife's grandmother has
this had this saying take a cookie when
their past and the funding story of my
first company was an example of how one
thing leads to another in ways that you
can't predict
which I'll talk about here I think it
relates to the difficulty of getting
funding it relates a little bit to
persistence I got a book when I was a
senior in college called accidental
empires was given to me by my college
girlfriend it was a gossip history of
Silicon Valley in it the author says
tips for entrepreneurs call me I'm a
cheap date and my nickname at the
company was phone boy still is actually
my name I was my job is just to call
people who I thought might be interested
in the technology we were building so I
call the author he we go out to lunch he
gets excited about what we're doing says
he wants to join the company we thought
we'd made it because this author of a
book wanted to join our company he
ultimately didn't join but he introduced
us to the company he worked for which
was infoworld which is a magazine at the
time this is back in 1994 and infoworld
wanted us to take our search technology
apply it to their archives and put their
archives online and make them searchable
and they would give us a hundred
thousand dollars to do so that sounded
great to us we're working in our garage
and eating rice and beans so we took the
hundred thousand dollars and they said
if you do a good job will introduce you
to our parent company idg and we did a
good job they introduced us to IDG we
went to a board meeting where we talked
about what we had done and in that
meeting one of the board members of IDG
was a venture capitalist named Steve
Coit he worked for charles river
ventures out on the east coast he liked
what he saw he said hey you know I'm
interested in in potentially investing
but I don't have I need a west coast
partner so he introduced us to Jeff yang
who is now at redpoint then at ivp Jeff
didn't know what to do with us but he
introduced us to Vinod Khosla who in
that in like literally the first meeting
where everybody else was asking us how
are you going to make money in the first
10 minutes yes does the technology scale
we said we don't know he bought us a
ten-thousand-dollar hard drive which at
the time was ten gigabytes and we
thought we really liked this guy just
bought us ten grand of stuff and he
ultimately funded us to the tune of
about three million dollars without a
business plan and I could never have
predicted that the book that I got would
yield a funding without a
three-million-dollar financing but the
point is that every step of the way we
were saying yes to those opportunities
and figuring out a way to do them and I
think that relates to the stat of like
half a percent getting funding you just
don't know how it's going to come
together and how it's going to come
through and you can't predict and so
I've never found it I mean I love
planning but I've never found myself
there's the way you draw it up and
there's the way it actually runs and
those are often very very different
second piece failure I actually think
failure is radically over rated we all
say we all say this thing we always say
that it's site we say it and it's so
subconsciously wrong i think we say I've
learned more from my failures than my
successes actually the statement is more
valid as follows I've built more
character from my failures than my
successes but I have not learned more
from my failures in my successes and the
reason is as follows if you're in a
company you're running a company let's
say make like 15 decisions a day most or
minor you got to get several of them
right you got to get maybe like 10 of
them right maybe you gotta fix the other
ones you do that day over a day over a
day the comment that the combinations of
all those decision paths over multiple
years is enormous if you fail all you
know is that one of the trillion
trillion paths that you went down island
didn't work but if you succeed now you
have an instinct about what to do as
opposed to what to avoid you have
something to go towards as opposed to
something to stay away from and that's
why I tell entrepreneurial I tell
audiences like this all the time it is
so much better to go find a culture of a
company that you join that is about
winning that is winning go join a
competent go join the first company you
join if you're going to do one shouldn't
be like a three-person start-up it
really shouldn't because the chances
that you learn a gut pattern of what's
working and what's not is very low go
join a company that is in the knee of
the curve even if it's bigger even if
it's like 60 70 people because what
you're going to pick up there is a
pattern of success and that's what you
want that's how you're going to do your
neck your first company well it's get
that pattern of success I really think
we tell ourselves the wrong thing when
we say I've learned more from my
failures than my successes we build
character from our failures but we learn
from our successes um so you know I'll
end up with I'll try and be a little
more brief just the ouch so the the guy
that I work I've been in the venture
business for 11 years in the first six
and a half years I was working with a
guy named Bill Draper many people heard
of dfj that's Tim Draper his father is
Bill Draper Bill's father was also Bill
Draper was the first vc in Silicon
Valley so the Bill Draper I worked with
the william h Draper the third he has a
book out called the startup game if you
want to read it it's an interesting kind
of self biography with some lessons in
there he's in his early 80s he's done
the venture business off and on for 40
ish years he founded sutter hill
ventures which none of you have heard of
very few of you have probably heard of
it's probably the most successful but
successful venture firm you saw their
their name up on the list they had done
13 deals I haven't read any press on any
deal that sutter hill has done but
they're irr for over 35 years is 34.1
percent per year now do the compounded
math on that so bill started that firm
and he's been doing this for 40 ish
years and what he taught me was the
venture business is a business of
pattern matching and the longer you do
it the more you you know go towards some
things and stay away from other things
and I got you know a hundred one point
lessons from him which were really
valuable to me and if I had to pick you
know one of the top 10 and all of them
are equally valid but the one all just
pass on to you from bill is you you
never lose money taking a profit now
that's my favorite one the one that I
think is most instructive is that
capital intensive businesses are an
anathema to venture capital and in my
experience of investing in
40 50 company 45 companies in the past
11 years the pattern that I've
recognized that support what Bill has to
say is anytime there is a company that's
raising more and more money when it
hasn't solved the most fundamental
issues of his business is going to be a
huge ugly crater in the ground and
everybody's going to lose their money
founders are going to waste it eight
years of their life there's going to be
depression divorces and all sorts of
terrible things so if you look around at
some of the companies out there we do
have companies big name brands
successful companies you know Twitter's
and and Facebook's in Groupons and
Zynga's and and some of these companies
have all of them have raised a gazillion
dollars and some of them raise the money
after they had proven their business and
some of them are still raising money
even though they haven't really proven
their business and I think that bodes
poorly for some of those companies
though the last time we had it you know
maybe many of you are too young for this
there was a company at the peak of the
last bubble that collapsed called Webvan
which which exploded 1.2 billion dollars
of investor money they had never figured
out the fundamental issues of their
business but they raised more and more
and more money and when I say capital
intensive is an enactment of venture
capital which is what my dear friend
Bill Draper told me I don't mean it has
to be hundreds of millions it can be
tens of millions of dollars and if you
guys are going to start a company if
you're getting into the 10 15 20 million
range and you don't have a solid grasp
on the reality of your business and how
it all works get out because you'll just
waste your time and a lot more money
trying to figure out what to do there
and so you know keep you keep yourselves
lean and raise less money early on and
make sure you figured out what really
makes your business work as a business
and you're not a couple of years into it
burning I mean a million dollars a day
like some of these companies that are
out there right now should we hear from
the audience I think we should all thank
you i want to thank the panelists first
before we turn to questions
I've been told that if you have a
question to go to a microphone so I
don't know where the microphones are but
okay right there why don't we start with
you sir okay so my question has one or
two paths there's what I see is
incremental improves your business and
there's next waivers the next way would
be like the iPad even though the iPad
tablets have been out for a while wasn't
the till the ipad that the wave hit we
just saw HP cell or PC business and that
was only two years ago that the wave hit
and that's gone it's like a tsunami and
then there's like the next level of
search which hasn't hit yet but pretty
soon we're going to be out of the
boolean world in search we have to go to
Smart Search we don't know what that
looks like so for the guys who are
trying to do like next wave work what
would be the key thing besides
persistence that you would want to see
them focus on and for the guys or girls
and want to do incremental improvement
in existing industries what would be
some advice you give to them oh I think
one of the biggest things we can learn
from this device since you use the
example is that this device is not about
just looking great and having
functionality which it does but i think
what make this device a big kid is what
it doesn't have and i think you know one
of the beautiful tenets of good design
is perfection is achieved not when
you're adding things but when you run
out of things to take out so I think as
great technical thinkers sometimes the
fallacy that we fall into is like in
order to build the next way product we
need to just fill it with a lot of
features but I think for it to be really
really successful it has to be really
simple and it really has to provide that
one value and sometimes the hardest
thing for us to do is just keep taking
things out until that great
functionality is achieved okay hi
everyone my name is NaN Lou and I'm a
student here at Berkeley and a metric
international student from china so I'm
not sure if you are familiar with the
conditions in China oh right now China
is really excited and
I you have when it's really it's not
that it's not that hard and sure for
fundraising when your company is matured
enough but still the investing
conditions in China is really
unregulated because like based on the
different different ideologies of china
and us so I like let me give a little
brief introduction so like when dorant
likes you really during the first run by
fundraising like no one really care and
and the investors and the angels we
sometimes invest their money really
based on how much they like they like
the entrepreneurs and and from for my
friends many of my friends they really
they had the enough money as a start-up
but they really need help from the
angels in terms of how they could
network with other people as you as as
joe says how they could get help out
employment and other stuff and like
during stage fundraising during stage
stacy and there there might be
competition between different these days
at angels and sometimes there will be
some immoral commutation so as weight as
and some other issues so as the
panelists talked about the relationships
between the entrepreneurs and investors
I wanna ask from the China Chinese
perspective or like how you feel about
China like other other places what you
say about the morality and
responsibilities of a investor and how
based on your experiences thank you very
much I think Aidan you're the only guy
who is invested in China here done deals
in China and deals and I have greater
china LPS but I have not done a deal in
China but I think two things I can say
one first of all I think Steve Bankston
did a gang-up job and even though i
don't remember every single statistic I
know China was up there and certainly
doing really well
one thing that I can tell you also from
experience very limited experience of
only doing this for five years but
having that invested alongside of
investors like Ron Conway who's done it
for 25 30 35 years is that I think just
like Joe said a few good hits you know
lock can help you but the only way to
consistently do well in this business to
have a really strong brand right i mean
investors come and go money comes and
goes and if you really want to work with
great people you need to have a great
reputation that is built one reputation
at a time and it takes years and years
of hard work to build it and one single
bad move to destroy it completely right
one pissed-off entrepreneur so I think
this is not something that only applies
to China but applies to here too i think
as investors we have to build our
reputation one investor at a time and
really earn it and i think it's the same
same is true for entrepreneurs you also
have to have a reputation that you know
people hopefully will want to reach out
and work with you and you know give
money to your consult whatever so and i
think the same has to hold true in china
and you know when the market is so that
there are like two investors in thousand
founders is easy to get away with a lot
of bad stuff but as we have all seen
markets turn around so i think you have
to have a long-term perspective Joe and
Howard do you do your funds invest in
China no not right now okay you're up
yeah my name is Laura Laura I do a PhD
in entrepreneurship I have a question
about startup accelerators there's you
have a for instance y combinator and
textures and that put you through a
program you get a lot of mentoring and
you can get help with the setting up the
company legalize all that and at the end
you typically have a demo day wondering
how valuable you you think there is
you're in terms of do you see any good
deals coming out of
and is it more for angels or is it also
interesting for venture capitalists so
actually I think those kinds of programs
are valuable I mean at Google Ventures
were setting up something called startup
University which is basically for the
80-plus seed companies will do every
year we basically run a ton of classes
like how to do quick and dirty user
testing how to run a great engineering
organization what are best practices how
do you successfully source and select
engineers or product managers or
designers there's a lot that can be
taught through real hands-on workshops
that I think are valuable coming from
people who have done it before so i
think the mentorship the teaching is
really valuable but probably the most
valuable thing is actually the
intercompany networking that builds up
so you know Y Combinator's class this
year's what's 63 excite right it's big
class but a lot of the value actually
comes I mean I think much in the way I
didn't go to business school but I hear
a lot that a lot of business school is
about that kind of building the network
so i happen to be fans of those programs
i think they they benefit the
entrepreneur also because they create
kind of feeding frenzy mentality through
kind of presentation demo day creation
of scarcity fear of missing out in terms
of generating higher prices I don't know
whether they generate better outcomes
but they certainly I think they cert
haven't looked at the data but I would
presume that they get funded at a better
rate than the average entrepreneur well
it certainly is a big trend in in
Northern California Silicon Valley
there's been a plethora of new
accelerators and incubators and with why
common error as I think you know there's
if you get in you're essentially
guaranteed seed funding and so it kind
of speaks to the world we live in today
I mean I'm just going to tell you I've
invested probably in a dozen YC
companies I'm an investor on both of the
YC funds I'm an investor at least one
text our company one Seedcamp company
that doesn't mean that I do hundreds of
deals by the way but
and I can think of at least one company
for each one of those that has done well
I can also think of companies that I've
been involved that have not any that
haven't done any incubators at all and i
think i would say Joe I think hit the
nail on the head the camaraderie in the
network is probably one of the biggest
assets and also selectively like if you
get into a school that is really hard to
get into of course the great feeling of
achievement but also the other peers
that are there like I think you'll learn
a lot to them as well and I think the
important point is there is no single
path to success for some people that's a
great way to get to where they want to
go and I think another great point that
Joe made and also Howard I think made is
that you know the dots kind of connect
and you just have to have faith so
sometimes that goes through incubators
sometimes it doesn't but as long as you
do something that fits what you're doing
and if that's something that can really
really help you then I think so much
better and I think a really interesting
part of accelerators and incubators is
you just look at the statistics you know
the failure rate is extremely high for
those companies but all of the founders
who do do it they learn something and
they meet people and they network and if
they fail they're all going to start
maybe eighty percent are going to start
something new and they now have the
learnings from what they learn the first
time around you don't need to go to the
go to Y Combinator twice to get the
lesson so if you don't make it the first
time around you've learned enough from
that you know to help you the next time
around so I think they're too early to
see this yet but probably in a few years
you'll will be meeting entrepreneurs who
say yeah I you know here's my history
and I and I went and YC and I'm not
company and make it but now here's what
I'm doing and I think that would be a
very common thing that we'll see in a
few years from now thank you so my
question at the high level is how should
we as entrepreneurs split our time
between marketing and networking and
building so let me just explain a little
more I'm a computer science student
which means I love building things and
most people I know in computer science
also love doing this we're not as good
at networking or talking to people in
general
so I know that other people in this room
are probably much better at figuring out
what would sell or how to organize a
structure business or who to sell to or
how to recruit I want to have huge
impact in the world personally and I
think that's what defines me as an
entrepreneur and probably everybody else
here I have something I'm really good at
which is writing software but how do I
decide how much time to invest in
introducing myself to you folks after
this meeting or psyche just go back to
my you know dark office and and continue
continue hacking and doing what I love
and like what are the strategies for
different personality types that you can
recommend to for really successful
entrepreneurs so I think the answer here
is just team structure and I signed a
term sheet with a seed investment for a
couple million bucks this morning and
it's three students fresh out of school
and it's two engineers and one business
person and the you know the business
person came and and I met her at a at
Stanford and she was telling me what she
what they were doing and and doing all
this research and talking about all
sorts of companies and networking and
learning everything about the market and
I said well next time let's bring the
team and she's like well they won't say
anything and she brought her two
engineers to the next meeting and you
know I had to you know I finally got
them to give me a demo and then they
lightened up a little bit because they
were showing me what they had been
building so I think the simple answer is
you know it's okay if it's just a bunch
of developers and you'll then you have
to spend some percentage of your time
doing the other stuff at the easiest
thing to do is get another team member
and build the company out to have
somebody who can happily fill that role
instead of you having to fill that role
if it's not something that you like to
do and I think the only thing I would
add to that is as an entrepreneur you
have to wear many hats some of them are
comfortable some of them not and if you
just want to do and stay in your comfort
zone I think the easiest thing to do is
just take a job but if you're going to
get into our nerve entrepreneurship the
thing you realize very fast is you need
to do things that you're really good at
that hopefully carries you but you also
have to learn a lot of stuff on the way
and you just have to do it and I think
you're already half the way there
because it sounds like you have
co-founders or at least co-conspirators
so at least you guys are sharing and you
know you you can at least as a group
help each other and maybe decide like
okay we're all programmers but like this
person is a little bit more outgoing so
that person could do the networking and
so on and so forth so I think that's a
good starting point thanks you more
question and then you can come up and
talk to these guys briefly hi my name is
Kevin Thomas soon here thanks to
everyone for being here I was wondering
if you could tell us about some of the
investment opportunities that you most
regret passing up are there lessons
about things that issues that you
thought were unsolvable at the time that
they it turns out that they could turn
around and overcome those obstacles
thanks i would just briefly say the the
few that I've regretted missing so far
my past on Twitter at the series a and I
passed on square at the series a and in
both of those cases the prices just
seemed ridiculous to me and live and
learn hopefully I won't do that again in
the future but you know we're trained
that you know you buy low and you sell
high you don't buy high and pray
but in some cases you know the pitch
that square had was pretty awesome but
the price just made I've never paid that
much for a Series A and I just couldn't
get over it nice I'm friends with Jack
Dorsey and I said you know I'm just not
going to do it and he found Gideon you
to do it and Gideon paid 30 ish million
and now it's at a billion or whatever it
is yeah I ever and it's and he's the
wonderful guys and it's a wonderful
company so my biggest lesson there has
been if the market is saying this is
what it is if you really love something
sometimes you got to pay a stupid price
for something and then when it fails you
kind of go well nobody will know what I
paid and what it and when and when it
succeeds then you just don't make nearly
as much money as you would have if you
had paid the price you wanted to pay
excellent last but not least thanks hi
my name's Michael I'm a first year MBA
here so I really appreciated Andy's
question I'm exactly on the opposite end
of his question in the sense that i'm a
business student and i have a lot of
great ideas and i'm really looking for
people to build we should talk after
this and i'm curious to hear is you know
so if you i have these great big ideas
and i'm looking for people to implement
them at what stage would i approached
you guys for seed or what what do you
need me to do so i can get the money to
bring on Andy to code for me I mean
generally speaking we at least tend to
fund you know at least a if it's either
just a pure engineering team or a
product and product person and an
engineer like I don't think we've funded
teams that don't have engineers behind
them because sure I guess what I'm
saying is do you need a prototype like
what how much do you need to accomplish
um you know it's interesting i would say
we do fund some just pure ideas but for
the most part prototypes so there's a
few things sorry one is should
definitely get co-founders because it
makes a big difference preferable if
you've worked together in the past these
are all things that lead to better
success because you've solved problems
together in the past
in terms of what you need I feel like
you know prototypes are are definitely
what I'd like to personally see mainly
because it gives you an indication of
what the turnover you know that kind of
the turnover rate or the throughput or
the tempo or the you know the tempo of
the company is going to be and something
that's just paper when you have
engineers on board just doesn't feel
quite right to me I feel like I should
see something I want to see low fidelity
prototypes I want to see kind of a high
velocity in terms of the turnover the
company I know it's a generalization but
what you guys think i mean i wish i had
a standard answer to that but i was just
thinking of two anecdotes one was i just
recently was having this conversation
with an entrepreneur within and upper
seeding but she literally had this idea
that was i'm not going to say obscure
but it was like a very like marginal
thing but what was amazing is she not
only took the idea but found three
amazing programmers to build one of the
most beautiful sights I've seen to
actually implement it I was just blown
away I think I almost like said I'm
gonna invest in this company because I
can't believe you took that idea you
sold it you got these people to develop
the product and I'm like using this and
I'm thinking how did you get these guys
to build it for you just on like your
vision alone the second thing is I was
just again talking to an entrepreneur
today it's a team of two engineers in
one business guy and we were talking to
the business guy and I'm a sales guy
product but I wasn't an engineer i
programmed a little bit but you know we
kind of like asking well how did you
like happen on this company and what
were you doing and the guy said look you
know he told about three big
distribution do you see close and the
company is like two months old I'm like
what did you do is like well you know I
started like there was this company like
huge like hundreds of millions of
customers I started at the customer
service number called them 10 times
until they gave me the number of the
company then called a number spoke to
the receptionist I spoke to the
receptionist said this is exactly what
my product does and receptionist loved
it so much that connected me to the vp
of the company so I mean if that guy is
willing to do anything he's like you
know we're stay in this apartment I like
put the headset so people don't hear the
crazy noise in the background so that
like they think we're in an office but
I'm in this like place where we also
live and there's crazy noise so you know
we're all starting from
beginnings and it's kind of like lemon
into lemonade like some people can say
oh you know I have all these things I
don't know how to get out of it and some
people are like you know what I'm just
going to use the imagination good humor
and good attitude and figure out a way
until I get to the point that I need to
get to and I'm so sorry to repeat this
tutor time but um you know you do
whatever it takes if you can sell people
on your vision alone without know
engineers then that's the answer if
you're not getting the answer and
everybody's like you know kind of
starting to move way in the 30th second
that's also your answer so I don't think
there is a standard answer um it's just
whatever you can get away with come full
circle
well that was a absolutely fantastic
event I want to thanks Sam and Fenwick
unless thanking you putting a panel
together thank our panelists as well and
our next event is on sep tember 22nd and
its food entrepreneurship and we're
going to have great food as well as
great entrepreneurship we'll see you
then
you